
HTML
-x-x-
Hypertext Markup Language is the standard markup language for 
documents designed to be displayed in a web browser. It can be 
assisted by technologies such as Cascading Style Sheets and 
scripting languages such as JavaScript.


CSS
-x-x-
Cascading Style Sheets is a style sheet language used for describing 
the presentation of a document written in a markup language such as HTML. 
CSS is a cornerstone technology of the World Wide Web, alongside HTML and JavaScript


G0
-x-x-
Go is an open source programming language that makes 
it easy to build simple, reliable, and efficient software.


Go RestAPI
-x-x-x-x-x-
A REST API (also known as RESTful API) is an application programming interface (API or web API) 
that conforms to the constraints of REST architectural style and allows for interaction 
with RESTful web services. ... An API is a set of definitions and protocols for building and 
integrating application software.


Gin
-x-
Gin is a framework that reduces boilerplate code 
that would normally go into building these applications. 
Gin is a HTTP web framework written in Go (Golang). 
It features a Martini-like API with much better 
performance -- up to 40 times faster. If you need 
smashing performance, get yourself some Gin. gin-gonic.com/ MIT License.


Git
-x-x-
Git is a version control system that lets you manage and keep track of 
your source code history. 
	git init
	git config --global user.name "- "
	git congig --global user.email "-"
	git add
	git branch -M main
	git remote add origin "link"
	git push -u origin main
	git status
	git commit
	git push
	git pull
	git clone
	git log
	git branch "-"
	git checkout


Github
-x-x-x-
GitHub is a cloud-based hosting service that lets you manage 
Git repositories. If you have open-source projects that use Git, 
then GitHub is designed to help you better manage them.


Docker
-x-x-x-
Docker is a set of platform as a service products that 
use OS-level virtualization to deliver software in 
packages called containers. Containers are isolated 
from one another and bundle their own software, 
libraries and configuration files; they can 
communicate with each other through well-defined channels.
	docker pull "image_name"
	docker run "image_name"
	docker images
	docker ps
	docker build
	docker stop "container_id"
	docker start "container_id"
	docker exec -it
	docker log


Is Docker a VM?
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-
>Docker is container based technology and containers are just 
	user space of the operating system. ... 

>A Virtual Machine, on the other hand, is not based on container technology. 
	They are made up of user space plus kernel space of an operating system. 
	Under VMs, server hardware is virtualized


docker image
-x-x-x-x-x-x-
A Docker image is a read-only template that contains a set of instructions 
for creating a container that can run on the Docker platform. 
It provides a convenient way to package up applications and 
preconfigured server environments, which you can use for your 
own private use or share publicly with other Docker users


Kubernetes
-x-x-x-x-x-
Kubernetes is an open-source container-orchestration 
system for automating computer application 
deployment, scaling, and management. It was 
originally designed by Google and is now maintained 
by the Cloud Native Computing Foundation.
	kubectl config view # Show Merged kubeconfig settings.
	kubectl apply 
	kubectl get # List all services in the namespace
	kubectl describe # Describe commands with verbose output
	kubectl diff # Compares the current state of the cluster against the state that the cluster would be in if the manifest was applied.
	kubectl rollout
	kubectl expose
	kubectl label
	kubectl annotate
	kubectl autoscale 
	kubectl patch 
	kubectl edit
	kubectl scale 
	kubectl delete 
	kubectl logs 
	kubectl attach 
	kubectl port
	kubectl exec
	kubectl cordon
	kubectl drain
	kubectl uncordon
	kubectl cluster
	kubectl api-resources
	

	
Namespace
-x-x-x-x-x-
Namespaces. Docker uses a technology called namespaces to provide 
the isolated workspace called the container. When you run a container, 
Docker creates a set of namespaces for that container. 
These namespaces provide a layer of isolation.


minikube
-x-x-x-x-
minikube quickly sets up a local Kubernetes cluster on 
macOS, Linux, and Windows. We proudly focus on helping 
application developers and new Kubernetes users.

	Start a cluster by running:
	> $ minikube start

	Access the Kubernetes Dashboard running within the minikube cluster:
	> $ minikube dashboard

	Once started, you can interact with your cluster using kubectl, just like any other Kubernetes cluster. For instance, starting a server:
	> $ kubectl create deployment hello-minikube --image=k8s.gcr.io/echoserver:1.4

	Exposing a service as a NodePort
	> $ kubectl expose deployment hello-minikube --type=NodePort --port=8080

	minikube makes it easy to open this exposed endpoint in your browser:
	> $ minikube service hello-minikube

	Upgrade your cluster:
	> $ minikube start --kubernetes-version=latest


Orchestration
-x-x-x-x-x-x-
Orchestration is the automated configuration, management, 
and coordination of computer systems, applications, and services. 
Orchestration helps IT to more easily manage complex tasks and workflows. 
IT teams must manage many servers and applications, 
but doing so manually isn't a scalable strategy.


Helm
-x-x-
Helm helps you manage Kubernetes applications.
In simple terms, Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes. 
Helm is the K8s equivalent of yum or apt. Helm deploys charts, 
which you can think of as a packaged application. 
It is a collection of all your versioned, pre-configured 
application resources which can be deployed as one unit.


cilium
-x-x-x-
Cilium is open source software for transparently securing 
the network connectivity between application services deployed 
using Linux container management platforms like Docker and Kubernetes.
Cilium assigns a security identity to groups of application containers 
which share identical security policies. The identity is then associated 
with all network packets emitted by the application containers, 
allowing to validate the identity at the receiving node. Security identity 
management is performed using a key-value store.


Berkeley Packet Filter
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-
eBPF stands for Extended Berkeley Packet Filter. 
The full version of the acronym doesn't do much justice to the actual abilities of the technology.

Hubble
-x-x-x-
Hubble is a fully distributed networking and security observability 
platform. It is built on top of Cilium and eBPF to enable deep visibility 
into the communication and behavior of services as well as the 
networking infrastructure in a completely transparent manner.


Daemon
-x-x-x-
In multitasking computer operating systems, a daemon is a computer program 
that runs as a background process, rather than being under the direct control of an interactive user.


minikube
-x-x-x-x-
minikube is local Kubernetes, focusing on making it easy to learn and develop for Kubernetes.




Layers of OSI Model
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-
>Application Layer
>Presentation Layer
>Session Layer
>Transport Layer
>Network Layer
>Data Link Layer
>Physical Layer


Protocols
-x-x-x-x-
	HTTP
	TLS
	FTP
	Telnet
	SMTP
	DNS
	TCP
	UDP
	IP
	ICMP
	IGMP
	Enthernet
	Tocken Ring
	Wireless LAN




Linux/Ubuntu Commands
-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-x-
date         -Display the current time in the certain FORMAT, or set the system date.
cal	     -Display the current date in the calender format
uptime	     -show uptime in pretty format
whoami       -Print the user name associated with the current effective user ID.
uname        -Print certain system information
users        -Output who is currently logged in according to FILE.
free         -show detailed about memory usage and rest other free space.
ps           -
cd	     -Change the current directory to DIR.  The default DIR is the value of the HOME shell variable.
pwd          -Print the name of the current working directory.
mkdir        -Create the DIRECTORY(ies), if they do not already exist.
ls           -List information about the FILEs (the current directory by default).
cat	     -Concatenate FILE(s) to standard output.
touch        -Update the access and modification times of each FILE to the current time.
echo	     -echo is a command used to print content what we entered along with echo(echo "GOOD MORNING")
nano	     -To place the cursor on a specific line of a file, put the line number with a '+' before the filename.  The column number can be added after a comma. When a filename is '-', nano reads data from standard input.
grep	     -Search for PATTERNS in each FILE.
cp	     -Copy SOURCE to DEST, or multiple SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY.
mv	     -Rename SOURCE to DEST, or move SOURCE(s) to DIRECTORY.
rm	     -Remove (unlink) the FILE(s).
less	     -
more	     -A file perusal filter for CRT viewing.
sort	     -Write sorted concatenation of all FILE(s) to standard output.
chown	     -Change the owner and/or group of each FILE to OWNER and/or GROUP.
chmod	     -Change the mode of each FILE to MODE.
vi	     -
history	     -Display the history list with line numbers, prefixing each modified entry with a `*'.  An argument of N lists only the last N entries.
-v	     -
man + help   -Mandatory or optional arguments to long options are also mandatory or optional for any corresponding short options.

